iris v/q to get it somehow seemed to be
more like having asthma attacks of
wheezing attacks that the rover is that
possible RSV respiratory syncytial virus
is a virus that causes a condition known
as bronchiolitis in children under the
age of two bronchiolitis is a condition
where the child is wheezing and has
difficulty breathing for a period of
seven to ten days what we know is that
the RSV virus does cause some damage to
the lining of the lung and that lining
can take many months to fully heal
during that period the patient is
certainly susceptible to have repeated
episodes of wheezing with any other
viral infection that may occur what
we're also seeing is that these children
who've had wheezing with their RSV
infection do have an increased risk to
have repeated periods of wheezing even
out until they're five six or seven
years of age sometimes these children
are diagnosed as asthma but in fact it's
the result of the RSV infection and
after they reached that point somewhere
between five and seven they outgrow
their wheezing disease once you diagnose
the infection clinically doing the nasal
smear test - to prove that it's RSV
helps to identify the cause of that
episode of bronchiolitis since other
viruses can cause bronchiolitis as well
knowing that it was RSV infection
certainly allows us to be prepared for
these repeated wheezing episodes that
can occur with RSV infections
specifically once this nasal smear test
is done once however and is proven to be
positive there's really no need to
repeat the test the patient will recover
from the infection within a seven to ten
day period and repeating the test would
not help us plan treatment
or predict outcomes